All you really need to know to make the most of your visit to Prague or any place for that matter


Cut off from daily routines, ongoing issues and binding networks, holidays can be a sacred time. It is not compulsory to substitute the set of usual duties with guides, programmes, schedules and to-do-to-see lists. If you don't bind your mind with preprocessed stuff, entering an unknown territory can be like entering a dream. As in a dream, things that address you tell you something of yourself. And it is even easier to remember, possible to record.

Mindscape walks

Imagine a city as an imprint of human minds into a landscape. Each human artefact existed once solely in the mind of a single person. So whenever you look around in a populated area, you find yourself in the middle of a materialised collective mental landscape. Somehow, there is everything we usually think about, fear, long for, run away from etc. From certain perspective, cityscape renders all these things tangible and visible, we can walk through and around them, observe, discover places we lost access to in our minds.

Think of it as a kind of a game.

You choose a starting point and from there on you give up on a map, apps, anything that tends to separate you from your surroundings.

It is good to set your time. An hour, two, three... it really is up to you, how you feel at the moment, and for how long you are willing to stay cut off from your virtual world.

The only devices recommended during the journey is a tracking system so that you can later reconstruct the walk, a camera to take pictures of whatever catches your attention, and an alarm clock that tells you when your time is up. You can find even better to grab a paper notebook and a pen/pencil instead, and take notes or sketch drawings.

Suggested rules of the game

• Set off in any direction that seems to be most appealing. Or just any direction with no reason at all.
• Ease off your mind, let it work on its own. Don't push, don't pull, don't make any expectations.
• Go.
• Walk around. Care not where you are. Just observe. Take notes of whatever catches your attention, of whatever raises strong feelings of any kind.
• Don't talk. If you are sharing the walk with someone, verbalise and exchange all your feelings only when it is over.
• Stop any time you feel like having enough, or when the alarm clock goes off.
• Wake up into your common mode by finding out where you are.
• Analyse your journey as if it were a dream. Find out about places that have raised your emotions. Put it all together. Let it live in you and develop for as much time as necessary. It can be years and you can do it anywhere, not just Prague, of course. Prague, however, is a great place to start with for mainly two reasons: it is safe to walk just about anywhere, there are no no go zones. And it is very shapely and diverse.

Advanced variation

Take one of the following claims as a filter and look at the world through it. See what you'll see. Change the filter next day.

There is nothing but patterns and frames.
There is nothing but layers and passages.
There is nothing but currents and dams.
There is nothing but processes and events.
There is nothing but thresholds and horizons.


Wander and wonder.
Harvest. Sieve. Weave.


Cardinal Points
Vltava (The Stream), Prague Castle (The Power Seat), Vyšehrad (The Spiritual Seat), Žižkov Spire (The Cosmic Seat), Petřín (The Lovers Place), or Rider(The Warrior's Vista).

Chances are high, at least in downtown, that it takes you only few steps from where you’re actually standing to get a glimpse of one or more of them. If you take notice of their relative positions on the first day of your stay, you may wander, but you’ll never get lost.

The river Vltava cuts Prague in two halves (of noticeably different characters).  It runs from South towards North with a catchy half-loop around Prague Castle and its neighbourhood.
